docs(refactor): simplify and tidy the worker guide (#89)
canonical/temporal-k8s-operator: documentation/tutorial/07-deploy-worker.md

# Deploy Temporal worker

This is part of the
[Charmed Temporal Tutorial](https://discourse.charmhub.io/t/charmed-temporal-k8s-tutorial-introduction/11777).
Please refer to this page for more information and the overview of the content.

The [Temporal worker](https://docs.temporal.io/workers) is the entity that
listens and polls a specific task queue, and executes code in response to the
task.

> ## Explanation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deploy
```
I would leave "Depoy" as the heading, goal-oriented. It is fine to have an explanatory paragraph there.

> The Temporal worker charm allows users to upload and automatically run custom worker scripts (regardless of the SDK of choice).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Temporal worker charm allows users to upload and automatically run custom worker scripts, independent of the chosen SDK.
```

This is achieved by creating a rock with all runtime dependencies, worker scripts, and workflows, that is used at deployment time.

> Because of this, deploying the worker goes in two parts:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because of this, deploying the worker involves two steps:
```

> 1. Creating a custom worker rock

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Creating a custom worker rock.
```

> 2. Deploying the worker charm using the worker rock

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Deploying the worker charm using the worker rock.
```

[note]

In a production environment, a Temporal worker can be deployed in a separate

> environment from the Temporal server, for simplicity, this guide will assume

Reviewer: ```suggestion
environment from the Temporal server. For simplicity, this guide assumes
```

the server and worker belong to the same network, and can be connected directly.

It this is not the case, an ingress can be considered. See [Configure Ingress with Nginx Ingress Integrator](https://charmhub.io/temporal-k8s/docs/h-deploy-ingress) for more details.

[/note]

## Custom worker rock

> ### Requirements

Reviewer: Would it be better to place these requirements at the beginning of the guide, instead of here, even though I understand they only apply to the custom worker rock?

Author: It does only apply for the custom worker rock, but I wouldn't mind placing it at the beginning if it makes it easier to read.

Reviewer: Considering it’s a tutorial, I would place it at the beginning of the guide, before the "Deploy" section.

Reviewer: I think this is pending.

> * [`rockcraft`](https://snapcraft.io/rockcraft) installed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [`rockcraft`](https://snapcraft.io/rockcraft) installed.
```

> * A local OCI images registry to push images to or access to a public one

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A local OCI images registry to push images to or access to a public one.
```

> 1. Create a `rockcraft` project, you can use the [`rockcraft.yaml`](https://github.com/canonical/temporal-worker-k8s-operator/tree/main/resource_sample_py) as template.

Reviewer: I believe we are missing an introductory sentence for these steps.

> 1. Create a `rockcraft` project, you can use the [`rockcraft.yaml`](https://github.com/canonical/temporal-worker-k8s-operator/tree/main/resource_sample_py) as template.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a `rockcraft` project. You can use the [`rockcraft.yaml`](https://github.com/canonical/temporal-worker-k8s-operator/tree/main/resource_sample_py) as a template.
```

2. Make sure the `command` of the rock runs the worker script directly. For example, if `command: "./app/scripts/start-worker.sh"`:

```
$ cat start-worker.sh
 
python3 app/resource_sample/worker.py
```

> 3. Make sure your activities and workflows are also included in the rock as the worker script needs access to them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Ensure your activities and workflows are also included in the rock, as the worker script needs access to them.
```

4. Build the rock with `rockcraft pack`.

5. Make your rock available in a local or public registry. See [Publish a rock to a registry](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/rockcraft/latest/how-to/rocks/publish-a-rock/) for details.

## Deploy and configure Temporal worker

> 1. (optional) Add a model where worker charms will be deployed:

Reviewer: Maybe add a sentence (notebox below) explaining why this is optional + link for context (if applies)

Reviewer: Since this is a tutorial, let's avoid the use of "optional" steps (safe env for the tutorial user). Either keep the step or delete it, whatever you think it is better for this scenario.

If you keep the step, please keep also the notebox as explanation. Otherwise, delete it.

task.

The Temporal worker charm allows users to upload and automatically run custom worker scripts, independent of the chosen SDK.
This is achieved by creating a rock with all runtime dependencies, worker scripts, and workflows, that is used at deployment time.

Because of this, deploying the worker involves two steps:

1. Creating a custom container image for the worker using [rocks](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/server/explanation/virtualisation/about-rock-images/).
2. Deploying the worker charm using the custom container image.

[note]

In a production setting, a Temporal worker can be deployed in a separate
environment from the Temporal server. For simplicity, this guide assumes
the server and worker belong to the same network, and can be connected directly.

It this is not the case, an ingress can be considered. See [Configure Ingress with Nginx Ingress Integrator](https://charmhub.io/temporal-k8s/docs/h-deploy-ingress) for more details.

[/note]

### Requirements

* [`rockcraft`](https://snapcraft.io/rockcraft) installed.
* A local OCI images registry to push images to or access to a public one.

## Custom container image for the worker

> You will need to build and publish a container image using rockcraft. The steps below guide you through creating a rock-based image that includes your worker script and associated workflows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a custom container image for the worker, you need to build and publish it using Rockcraft. The steps below guide you through creating a rock-based image that includes your worker script and associated workflows.
```

1. Create a `rockcraft` project. You can use the [`rockcraft.yaml`](https://github.com/canonical/temporal-worker-k8s-operator/tree/main/resource_sample_py) as template.

2. Ensure the `command` of the rock runs the worker script directly. For example, if `command: "./app/scripts/start-worker.sh"`:

```
$ cat start-worker.sh
 
python3 app/resource_sample/worker.py
```

3. Ensure your activities and workflows are also included in the rock as the worker script needs access to them.

4. Build the rock with `rockcraft pack`.

5. Make your rock available in a local or public registry. See [Publish a rock to a registry](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/rockcraft/latest/how-to/rocks/publish-a-rock/) for details.

## Deploy and configure Temporal worker

Once the rock is ready and available, you will deploy the worker charm.

1. (optional) Add a model where worker charms will be deployed:

[note]

> Deploying the charm in a dedicated juju model allows a logic separation between the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deploying the worker charms in a dedicated Juju model allows a logic separation between the
```
